# Eshop controller

Eshop controller shows product based on id in url. Look into cache for product, if not found it looks into database and cache it for next time.

## Table of content

- [How it works](#how-it-works)
- [How to run Eshop controller](#how-to-run-eshop-controller)
- [How to stop container](#how-to-stop-container)
- [How to consume API](#how-to-consume-api)
- [Switch between ElasticSearch and MySql](#switch-between-elasticsearch-and-mysql)

## How it works

Id of product is checked if it is saved in cache, then product is returned in Json. If not it is randomly generated by fake database, saved to cache for later use and returned in Json. Number of searches of every id is saved into file. With every access to product, number of views of specific product is increased by 1. Cache is in `files/cacheData.txt`. Marketing data is in `files/marketingData.txt`. Database source can be switched with [instructions](#switch-between-elasticsearch-and-mysql) lower in readme.

## How to run Eshop controller

1. Install `Docker`.
2. Run command `make build-image` in cmd.
3. - On first start up use command `make first-run-container`.
   - Otherwise use command `make start-existing-container`.
4. Open browser with url `localhost:8080/api/product?id=[id]`.

## How to stop container

1. Run command `make stop-container`.

## How to consume API

### One Product

- Go on url `/api/product.php?id=[id]`. Response looks like: `{"id": 1, nameOfProduct: "Watch", "price": 15000}`.
- If error occurs you will see `{"error": "Error"}`.

### Array of products

- Go on url `/api/products.php?starting=[starting]&length=[length]`. Starting varible tells on which id start and length tells how many products from start do you want.
- If variable starting was 10 and length was 20. It would return Products from id 10 to id 29.
- Response looks like: `[{"id": 1, nameOfProduct: "Watch", "price": 15000, imageUrl: "/img/watch.jpg"}, {"id": 2, nameOfProduct: "Tv", "price": 16000, imageUrl: "/img/tv.jpg"}]`.
- If error occurs you will see `{"error": "Error"}`.

## Switch between ElasticSearch and MySql

1. Open `ProductService.php`.
2. Find method `getProduct($id, false)` on class `DatabaseService`.
3. Change boolean false on method `getProduct($id, false)` to true to switch on MySql.
